I study how these collect and transport
pollen back to their hives pollen is the
main source of protein and a bee's diet
so it's really important that they're
able to collect enough of it for the
hive when they carry it they mix it with
nectar and carrying the form of
suspension so solid particles in a
liquid particle on their legs so I've
been studying the fluid properties of
that pellet that they form out of the
suspension and how it adheres to the leg
and I used SEM so scanning electron
micrographs to actually look at these
pellets really really close up and see
the pollen grains in the nectar the
volume fraction so the number of
particles per volume of this pellet is a
maximum for what is theoretically
possible so it's really impressive that
they're able without even really
thinking about it they're able to
maximize the number of pollen particles
they could bring back to the to the hive
I'm studying them from fluids
perspective as well and I was able to
measure the viscosity so how thick the
suspension is and I found that the
including the pond in the nectar
increases the viscosity 10,000 times
from just nectar alone which is good
because if you think of something it's
has a low viscosity so it flows really
easily it'd be hard to get it to stick
to the leg it wouldn't stay which would
be really bad news for the bee because
it's been all this time collecting
pollen and then it would fall off be
very sad so and then from there I looked
at you know how strongly these pellets
are adhered to the leg so I did this by
gluing a leg to just a slide and then
gluing a wire to the pellet and pulling
it off with an elastic string so you
lastik string acts like a spring so you
can measure the amount that this this
string deflects and then you can measure
the force that way and I found that the
force to remove the basket is 24 times
greater than any drag force Abby
experiences while it's flying so again
good news because the bees not going to
lose the thing yet they work so hard to
to fill up and bring back to the hive
you